abrade,v. to scrape; to wear away by friction or erosion,adroit,adj. skillful; highly competent; dexterous,amass,v. to gather together; to accumulate,arcane,adj. understood by few; cryptic; abstruse,archetypal,adj. the model or best example of something; quintessential,banal,adj. common place; pedestrian; clichéd,debase,v. to reduce in quality/stature; to demean,decadent,adj. excessive to the point of decay/decline,despotic,adj. ruling with absolute power and authority over others,disposed,adj. being inclined toward an action; behavior,euphemism,n. a word/phrase that takes the place of a harsher sounding word/phrase,euphonious,adj. pleasant sounding; pleasing to the ear,evince,v. to show or demonstrate clearly,garrulous,adj. excessively talkative; loquacious,genial,adj. good nature; pleasant; friendly,hackneyed,adj. over used; unoriginal; clichéd,impel,v. to force or strongly encourage someone to act,labrynthine,complicated; intricate; puzzling,obtuse,adj. slow to understand; slow-witted; uncomprehending,opaque,adj. unclear; mysterious; enigmatic,oscillate,v. to move/swing back and forth,ostensibly,adv. appearing/seeming to be true,pariah,n. a social outcast; persona non grata,pretentious,adj. trying to impress; gaudy; ostentatious,refractory,adj. stubborn; obstinate; rebellious,retinue,n. assistants/advisors who accompany an important person; an entourage,scrupulous,adj. an exact and attentive to detail; avoiding any immoral behavior,servile,adj. too willing to agree or please; subservient; obsequious,sordid,adj. shameful and disgraceful; such as someone's actions or moral choices,stultify,v. to eliminate and enthusiasm or interest in something; usually because of routine or restrictions,superfluous,adj. unnecessary; nonessential; excessive,timorous,adj. fearful; hesitant,transient,adj; temporary; ephemeral; evanescent,unadulterated,adj. pure; undiluted; absolute,usurp,v. to take a position of power from another illegally and often by force,vainglorious,adj. excessive pride in oneself or in one's accomplishments; narcissistic