absolve,v. to forgive or free from blame(expiate),apotheosis,n. the highest point; the culmination; the acme,benighted,adj. unenlightened; woefully ingnorant,blithe,adj. cheerful and unconcerned--maybe to the point of being inconsiderate to others,cachet,n. prestige; high status; clout--influence (gravitas),cahoots,n. collaborating or conspiring with (idiom: in cahoots with),delineate,v. to describe or portray precisely; to make something stand out,depravity,n. moral corruption; immorality,egregious,adj. remarkably/shockingly bad; awful,fawn,v. to show excessive affection for; give attention to,galvanize,v. to spur/motivate into action,grouse,v. to complain; whine; or grumble about,homage,n. a show of respect or reverence toward someone; somethingex: The band paid homage(ah-midge) to the Beatles by performing a tribute--or homage(oh-mahj--the thing) to the influential British band.,incorrigible,adj. not to be improved upon or reformed; incurable,incontrovertible,adj. indisputable; undeniable,judicious,adj. wise; prudent,kudos,n. praise; credit for an achievement,laconic,adj. brief; to the point; terse,malaise,n. a feeling of discomfort; uneasiness,nominal,adj. insignificant; negligible; minimal,ogle,v. to stare at with desire; to leer at,palatable,adj. pleasing to the taste; agreeable,quash,v. to put an end to; to suppress--such as a rumor or someone's hopes/dreams,quell,v. to put an end; to suppress(usually with force)--such as a rebellion or uprising,rebuff,v. to rejet in an abrupt; rude manner,rescind,v. to cancel; to revoke; to nullify (void),skirt,v. to go around; to evade,soporific,adj. causing drowsiness/sleep,teem,v. to swarm; to overflow with something (idiom: teeming with),tenet,n. a principle or essential belief,urbane,adj. suave; sophisticated; worldly; debonair,vapid,adj. dull; uninteresting; uninspiring,winsome,adj. attractive/appealing in appearance or character; charming,xenophobic,adj. fear/dislike of foreign people and their customs,yen,n. a yearning or desire for something (idiom: a yen for),zenith,n. the highest point of something; the apogee; the apotheosis