aegis,n. protection; guidance; support (idiom: under one's ...),antediluvian,adj. literally ;before the flood;; old-fashioned; outdated,apex,n./v. the highest point(n); to reach a high point(v),avuncular,adj. uncle-like; friendly and chummy,boondoggle,n./v. an activity/project that is a waste of time/money--but appears worthwhile,cataclysmic,adj. destructive; ruinous(debacle),celerity,n. swiftness; quickness of movement (adroit),clout,n. one's power or influence (cachet; gravitas),dearth,n. a scarcity; a lack of (ant:prodigious; superfluous),dissipate,v. to disperse or scatter; to disappear,enervate,v. to weaken; to feel drained of energy,filial,adj. of or due from a son or daughter,faux pas,n. an embarrassing remark/behavior in a social situation--literally ;a false step;,heretical,adj. holding beliefs at odds with the majority,loosey-goosey,adj. relaxed and at ease; imprecise and unstructured,myriad,n./adj. a countless or extremely great number (prodigious),munificent,adj. generous; magnanimous (parsimonious),neurotic,adj. excessively anxious; tense; high strung,obstreperous,adj. noisy and difficult to control; unruly,paucity,n. a scarcity; a lack of; dearth,plebeian,adj. common; low class; lacking refinement,prowess,n. skill and expertise in a particular field; adroit,quixotic,adj. idealistic; impractical; starry-eyed,redoubtable,adj. formidable; fearsome; deserving of respect,recalcitrant,adj. stubborn; uncooperative; obstinate,rigmarole,n. a lengthy; complicated procedure--one that becomes tiresome,rueful,adj. expressing sorrow or regret; remorseful,sophomoric,adj. juvenile; immature; foolish,stalwart,adj. dependable and loyal; sturdy and strong,stolid,adj. calm; showing little or no emotion; stoic,taciturn,adj. uncommunicative in speech; saying little; tight-lipped,tête-a-tête,n. a private conversation between two people--literally ;head to head;,tony,adj. fashionable; trendy; swanky,umbrage,n. resentment/offense (idiom: to take ... at),veracious,adj. being truthful; honest,vitriolic,adj. cruel; bitter; angry; acrimonious