abrade,v. to scrape; to wear away by friction or erosion,adroit,adj. skillful; highly competent; dexterous,amass,v. to gather together; to accumulate,arcane,adj. understood by few; cryptic; abstruse,archetypal,adj. the model or best example of something; quintessential,banal,adj. common place; pedestrian; clichéd,debase,v. to reduce in quality/stature; to demean,decadent,adj. excessive to the point of decay/decline,despotic,adj. ruling with absolute power and authority over others,disposed,adj. being inclined toward an action; behavior,euphemism,n. a word/phrase that takes the place of a harsher sounding word/phrase,euphonious,adj. pleasant sounding; pleasing to the ear,evince,v. to show or demonstrate clearly,garrulous,adj. excessively talkative; loquacious,genial,adj. good nature; pleasant; friendly,hackneyed,adj. over used; unoriginal; clichéd,impel,v. to force or strongly encourage someone to act,labrynthine,complicated; intricate; puzzling,obtuse,adj. slow to understand; slow-witted; uncomprehending,opaque,adj. unclear; mysterious; enigmatic,oscillate,v. to move/swing back and forth,ostensibly,adv. appearing/seeming to be true,pariah,n. a social outcast; persona non grata,pretentious,adj. trying to impress; gaudy; ostentatious,refractory,adj. stubborn; obstinate; rebellious,retinue,n. assistants/advisors who accompany an important person; an entourage,scrupulous,adj. an exact and attentive to detail; avoiding any immoral behavior,servile,adj. too willing to agree or please; subservient; obsequious,sordid,adj. shameful and disgraceful; such as someone's actions or moral choices,stultify,v. to eliminate and enthusiasm or interest in something; usually because of routine or restrictions,superfluous,adj. unnecessary; nonessential; excessive,timorous,adj. fearful; hesitant,transient,adj; temporary; ephemeral; evanescent,unadulterated,adj. pure; undiluted; absolute,usurp,v. to take a position of power from another illegally and often by force,vainglorious,adj. excessive pride in oneself or in one's accomplishments; narcissistic,abrogate,v. to repeal; to do away with; to nullify,ameliorate,v. to make better; to improve; mitigate; alleviate,ancillary,adj. additional support; auxillary,assiduous,adj. diligent; detail-minded; conscientious,besmirch,v. to damage; to debase; to smear-such as a reputation,byzantine,adj. extremely intricate or complex in structure (labyrinthine),calumny,n. false statements intended to debase someone's reputation; slander,cogitate,v. to ponder; to meditate/think on,contentious,adj. controversial; argumentative; quarrelsome,debacle,n. a disaster or failure,deleterious,adj. harmful; extremely unhealthy,ensconce,v. to settle in snugly ; secretly; safely,erudite,adj. scholarly; having great knowledge; learned,facetious,adj. treating some serious w/ inappropriate humor; sarcastic; flippant,feral,adj. wild; savage; ferocious,gravitas,n. dignity; seriousness; authority,impudent,adj. disrespectful; rude; insolent,iniquitous,adj. unjust; immoral; grossly unfair,juggernaut,n. something massive; destructive and unstoppable,lassitude,n. weariness; lethargy; torpor,maudlin,adj. overly and tearfully sentimental; overly emotional,mendacious,adj. dishonest; deceitful; lying,neophyte,n. a beginner; a novice,nonplus,v. to surprise and confuse,onerous,adj. burdensome; oppressive; extremely difficult,ossify,v. to turn into bone; to become rigid or set in one's way,persimonious,adj. stingy; overly frugal,penultimate,adj. next to last,petulant,adj. cranky; ill-tempered; irritable,salubrious,adj. healthful; favorable to one's health,scofflaw,n. one who shows disdain for and is continually breaking the law,sinuous,adj. winding; curvy,temerity,n. over confidence and boldness; audacity,truculent,adj. hostile; aggressive; defiant,veneer,n. façade; an outward appearance,zealous,adj. very enthusiastic; passionate,abscond,v. to flee quickly/secretly so as to avoid capture,acrimonious,adj. angry; bitter,ambivalent,adj. conflicted over two opposing ideas; feeling torn-of two minds,assail,v. to attack someone w/ words or actions (besmirch; debase),august,adj. inspiring; dignified; majestic,benevolent,adj. kindhearted; benign (genial),circumvent,v. to go around; bypass; evade,cocksure,adj. arrogantly confident; smug,diaphanous,adj. light and delicate; and thus translucent or transparent; see-through,dreck,n. trash; rubbish--in a figurative sense,edify,v. to educate; to improve the morals or knowledge of a person,expiate,v. to atone for; to make amends,farcical,adj. absurd; ridiculous; ludicrious,formidable,adj. instilling fear and respect; daunting,hegemony,n. a person's or country's domination/control over another,immutable,adj. unchangeable; permanent (ant: transient),imperturbable,adj. unflappable; not easily upset or agitated,impertinent,adj. disrespect; impudent,lugubrious,adj. mournful; gloomy; morose,lurid,adj. vividly shocking and sensational,motley,adj. varied in appearance or character; diverse,ne 'er-do-well,n. one who is lazy and irresponsible,premonition,n. a strong feeling that something (esp. something bad) is about to come,primal,adj. first or earliest in development; most basic or essential,prodigious,adj. enormous; vast in quantity,ramshackle,adj. run-down; dilapidated; decrepit,rapacious,adj. aggressively greedy; avaricious,recondite,highly complex; requiring specialized knowledge/skill (adroit; labyrinthine; byzantine; arcane),revile,v. to criticize harshly; to disparage; to vilify (debase; besmirch; calumny),sedition,n. conduct/speech intended to incite revolt/rebellion; subversion,sentient,adj. able to feel/perceive; conscious;aware,skulk,v. to move about secretly; stealthily,supercilious,adj. arrogant; haughty; condescending (cocksure),venerable,adj. respectable; revered; esteemed,voracious,adj. extremely hungry; ravenous; insatiable,wistful,adj. yearning; melancholic,absolve,v. to forgive or free from blame(expiate),apotheosis,n. the highest point; the culmination; the acme,benighted,adj. unenlightened; woefully ingnorant,blithe,adj. cheerful and unconcerned--maybe to the point of being inconsiderate to others,cachet,n. prestige; high status; clout--influence (gravitas),cahoots,n. collaborating or conspiring with (idiom: in cahoots with),delineate,v. to describe or portray precisely; to make something stand out,depravity,n. moral corruption; immorality,egregious,adj. remarkably/shockingly bad; awful,fawn,v. to show excessive affection for; give attention to,galvanize,v. to spur/motivate into action,grouse,v. to complain; whine; or grumble about,homage,n. a show of respect or reverence toward someone; somethingex: The band paid homage(ah-midge) to the Beatles by performing a tribute--or homage(oh-mahj--the thing) to the influential British band.,incorrigible,adj. not to be improved upon or reformed; incurable,incontrovertible,adj. indisputable; undeniable,judicious,adj. wise; prudent,kudos,n. praise; credit for an achievement,laconic,adj. brief; to the point; terse,malaise,n. a feeling of discomfort; uneasiness,nominal,adj. insignificant; negligible; minimal,ogle,v. to stare at with desire; to leer at,palatable,adj. pleasing to the taste; agreeable,quash,v. to put an end to; to suppress--such as a rumor or someone's hopes/dreams,quell,v. to put an end; to suppress(usually with force)--such as a rebellion or uprising,rebuff,v. to rejet in an abrupt; rude manner,rescind,v. to cancel; to revoke; to nullify (void),skirt,v. to go around; to evade,soporific,adj. causing drowsiness/sleep,teem,v. to swarm; to overflow with something (idiom: teeming with),tenet,n. a principle or essential belief,urbane,adj. suave; sophisticated; worldly; debonair,vapid,adj. dull; uninteresting; uninspiring,winsome,adj. attractive/appealing in appearance or character; charming,xenophobic,adj. fear/dislike of foreign people and their customs,yen,n. a yearning or desire for something (idiom: a yen for),zenith,n. the highest point of something; the apogee; the apotheosis,ad nauseam,adv. repeated so often it becomes tiresome; annoying (rigmarole),adept,adj. skilled or very proficient at something (adroit; prowess),brusque,adj. shortness of speech or manner; abrupt; curt,calamitous,adj. disastrous; cataclysmic(debacle),contemplative,adj. thoughtful; pensive; reflective,copious,adj. prodigious; munificent; plentiful; abundant (close to decadent),coup d'état,n. a sudden; violent uprising; insurrection(usurpation) an illegal seizure of power (literally blow of state),coup de grâce,n. the death blow; the final shot,eclectic,adj. motley; varied; diverse; wide-ranging,gesticulate,v. to make gestures(often dramatic ones) while speaking,hearten,v. to cheer up; to raise one's spirits (ant: enervate),ingratiate,v. using flattery/actions to get into one's good graces,inculcate,v. to instill an idea or belief through persistent teaching,jovial,adj. cheerful; friendly,melancholic,adj. sad; gloomy; despondent,mercurial,adj. given to sudden changes in mood; capricious,obsequious,adj. overly attentive/fawning; servile; ingratiating,pernicious,adj. damaging and harmful; usually in a subtle way,phlegmatic,adj. calm; imperturbable; unflappable,poignant,adj. touching; heart-rending; moving,pontificate,v. to express one's opinions pompously and close-mindedly (sententious),propitious,adj. favorable; promising; optimistic,proprietary,adj. pertaining to ownership; possession,propriety,n. proper behavior; correctness of manner,recidivism,n. the reoccurrence of a criminal behavior that has been previously punished for,reminisce,v. to remember/look back on with fondness (not nostalgia),sanguine,adj. cheerful; optimistic,snarky,adj. cranky; irritable; critical; snide,subpoena,n. a written order to attend a court of law v. to summon someone to court,systemic,adj. affecting the whole; rather than just a part,tenacious,adj. persistent; stubbornly clingy; unshakable--grit,tentative,adj. hesitant; unsure; not confident,tenuous,adj. having little substance or strength; weak,unceremonious,adj. undignified; lacking formality or grace (ant. august),untenable,adj. not defensible or justifiable,vindicate,v. to free from blame; acquit,aegis,n. protection; guidance; support (idiom: under one's ...),antediluvian,adj. literally ;before the flood;; old-fashioned; outdated,apex,n./v. the highest point(n); to reach a high point(v),avuncular,adj. uncle-like; friendly and chummy,boondoggle,n./v. an activity/project that is a waste of time/money--but appears worthwhile,cataclysmic,adj. destructive; ruinous(debacle),celerity,n. swiftness; quickness of movement (adroit),clout,n. one's power or influence (cachet; gravitas),dearth,n. a scarcity; a lack of (ant:prodigious; superfluous),dissipate,v. to disperse or scatter; to disappear,enervate,v. to weaken; to feel drained of energy,filial,adj. of or due from a son or daughter,faux pas,n. an embarrassing remark/behavior in a social situation--literally ;a false step;,heretical,adj. holding beliefs at odds with the majority,loosey-goosey,adj. relaxed and at ease; imprecise and unstructured,myriad,n./adj. a countless or extremely great number (prodigious),munificent,adj. generous; magnanimous (parsimonious),neurotic,adj. excessively anxious; tense; high strung,obstreperous,adj. noisy and difficult to control; unruly,paucity,n. a scarcity; a lack of; dearth,plebeian,adj. common; low class; lacking refinement,prowess,n. skill and expertise in a particular field; adroit,quixotic,adj. idealistic; impractical; starry-eyed,redoubtable,adj. formidable; fearsome; deserving of respect,recalcitrant,adj. stubborn; uncooperative; obstinate,rigmarole,n. a lengthy; complicated procedure--one that becomes tiresome,rueful,adj. expressing sorrow or regret; remorseful,sophomoric,adj. juvenile; immature; foolish,stalwart,adj. dependable and loyal; sturdy and strong,stolid,adj. calm; showing little or no emotion; stoic,taciturn,adj. uncommunicative in speech; saying little; tight-lipped,tête-a-tête,n. a private conversation between two people--literally ;head to head;,tony,adj. fashionable; trendy; swanky,umbrage,n. resentment/offense (idiom: to take ... at),veracious,adj. being truthful; honest,vitriolic,adj. cruel; bitter; angry; acrimonious,camaraderie,n. mutual trust and friendship; fellowship,censor,v. suppress; limit; and/or sanitize content,censure,v. to publicly express condemnation or extreme disapproval for an act or idea,cogent,adj. clear; logical; and convincing; compelling,convoluted,adj. intricate; complex; difficult to follow(labyrinthine; sinuous; byzantine; cryptic),cryptic,adj. riddle-like; difficult to understand; abstruse (obtuse),decorous,adj. proper; orderly; appropriate,disingenuous,adj. not straightforward or sincere; pretending to know less about something than one really does,dogged,adj. stubborn; tenacious,dogmatic,adj. inflexible; stubborn adherence to one's beliefs or way of thinking,ebullient,adj. enthusiastic; lighthearted; cheerful; jovial,effusive,adj. emotionally unrestrained; gushy; demonstrative (ant. stolid),elude,v. to evade or escape in a clever manner,equanimity,n. a calmness; poise; composure,esprit de sorps,n. ;spirit of the body; a feeling of pride and fellowship in a group,facility,n. a natural ability to do something easily and well,florid,adj. elaborate and complicated; overly embellished- such as a writer's diction; syntax,flout,v. ;to pipe at;; to openly disregard or defy a rule or law,frenetic,adj. wildly excited energetic and fast paced,gaudy,adj. extravagant; showy- to the point of bad taste,imperious,adj. arrogant; domineering;supercilious,incendiary,adj. stirring up conflict; inflammatory; rabble-rousing,indolent,adj. lazy; lackadaisial,laissez-faire,n. adj. letting things take their course; being hands off,mire,n. v. a swamp/bog(n); to get stuck in something unpleasant or difficult(v),myopic,adj. nearsighted; lacking imagination or insight,nadir,n. the lowest point; rock bottom (ant. zenith; apogee; acme; apotheosis),parity,n. equality; equivalent to,pejorative,adj. n. negative; derogatory; slanderous--a word/expression associated with these traits,quail,v. to feel fear or apprehension,quandary,n. a state of uncertainty and perplexity (in a quandary),rancid,adj. foul-tasting; rotten,redact,v. to edit; cut out; remove-usually related to text,slight,n./v. an insult; scornful remark; to insult or scorn,surreptitious,adj. secretive; sneaky; clandestine,torpid,lazy; dull; sluggish