camaraderie,n. mutual trust and friendship; fellowship,censor,v. suppress; limit; and/or sanitize content,censure,v. to publicly express condemnation or extreme disapproval for an act or idea,cogent,adj. clear; logical; and convincing; compelling,convoluted,adj. intricate; complex; difficult to follow(labyrinthine; sinuous; byzantine; cryptic),cryptic,adj. riddle-like; difficult to understand; abstruse (obtuse),decorous,adj. proper; orderly; appropriate,disingenuous,adj. not straightforward or sincere; pretending to know less about something than one really does,dogged,adj. stubborn; tenacious,dogmatic,adj. inflexible; stubborn adherence to one's beliefs or way of thinking,ebullient,adj. enthusiastic; lighthearted; cheerful; jovial,effusive,adj. emotionally unrestrained; gushy; demonstrative (ant. stolid),elude,v. to evade or escape in a clever manner,equanimity,n. a calmness; poise; composure,esprit de sorps,n. ;spirit of the body; a feeling of pride and fellowship in a group,facility,n. a natural ability to do something easily and well,florid,adj. elaborate and complicated; overly embellished- such as a writer's diction; syntax,flout,v. ;to pipe at;; to openly disregard or defy a rule or law,frenetic,adj. wildly excited energetic and fast paced,gaudy,adj. extravagant; showy- to the point of bad taste,imperious,adj. arrogant; domineering;supercilious,incendiary,adj. stirring up conflict; inflammatory; rabble-rousing,indolent,adj. lazy; lackadaisial,laissez-faire,n. adj. letting things take their course; being hands off,mire,n. v. a swamp/bog(n); to get stuck in something unpleasant or difficult(v),myopic,adj. nearsighted; lacking imagination or insight,nadir,n. the lowest point; rock bottom (ant. zenith; apogee; acme; apotheosis),parity,n. equality; equivalent to,pejorative,adj. n. negative; derogatory; slanderous--a word/expression associated with these traits,quail,v. to feel fear or apprehension,quandary,n. a state of uncertainty and perplexity,rancid,adj. foul-tasting; rotten,redact,v. to edit; cut out; remove-usually related to text,slight,n./v. an insult; scornful remark; to insult or scorn,surreptitious,adj. secretive; sneaky; clandestine,torpid,lazy; dull; sluggish